
---
title: "Meeting Notes 08-15-2022"
linkTitle: "08-15-2022"
date: 2022-08-15
description: >
  Meeting Notes from 08-15-2022
---

**Minutes of SBI-FAIR August 15, 2022, Meeting**

**Present:** Kamil Iskra, Xiaodong Yu, Deborah Penchoff, Shantenu Jha, Geoffrey Fox, Piotr Luszczek, Baixi Sun.

**Apologies** Vikram Jadhao,

**Updates**

**Virginia**

Geoffrey discussed



* The transfer of the DOE grant is making progress
* He is continuing his study of Foundation models by collecting common applications using similar deep learning systems
* He summarized the MLCommons status answering some questions noting that MLCommons collects surrogates and non-surrogate benchmarks
    * Geoffrey will send Shantenu notice about MLCommons meetings

Gregor


* contacted Rutgers for help, but due to staff changes that effort was shifted to Summit support team. Activity in progress.

**Rutgers**

Shantenu reported



* Work with Indiana University was delayed as JCS Kadupitiya has graduated from IU and was hired by Microsoft
* Improving AI for Science Chapter with AI-linked workflows for a new publication with performance 

**Argonne**



* Xiaodong Yu discussed the ASPLOS paper and will send an improved version in 2 weeks
* There are performance issues addressed with microbenchmarks
* Baixi presented their results  optimized over epoch and batch
* This does  not change results much even though the update order is different
* Schedule by access performance or load balance
* 4.2 to 5.8 speedup up to 64 processes
* Looking at scalability
* Other surrogates are AutophaseNN and BraggNN

**Indiana University**

Reported by email



* Starting Fall 2022, a new PhD student Fanbo Sun and a new postdoc Wenhui Li will work 50% on this project. Postdoc starts Sep 1.
* Soft labels: Continuing to explore the soft labels idea and how it reduces training set sizes. Planning a submission sometime this year. One paper submitted last year on this topic is still under review.
* Time series surrogate: With the postdoc, we will be working to extend the RNN operator to tackle NVT ensemble and larger number of particles.

**Tennessee**

Piotr reported



* Cade will come back plus a new Ph.D. student
* Two Submitted papers: one on Performance Surrogate and the other a SABATH paper
* Third paper to Data Challenge