
---
title: "Meeting Notes 05-29-2023"
linkTitle: "05-29-2023"
date: 2023-05-29
description: >
  Meeting Notes from 05-29-2023
---


**Minutes of SBI-FAIR May 29, 2023, Meeting**


**Present:** Geoffrey Fox, Xiaodong Yu, Baixi Sun. Piotr Luszczek, 

**Virginia** 



* Comment on Surrogates produced by generative methods versus those that map particular inputs to particular outputs.  In examples like experimental physics apparatus simulations, you only need output and not input. Methods need to sample output data space correctly.
* Geoffrey also described earlier experiences using second-order methods and least squares/maximum likelihood optimizations for physics data analysis. One can use eigenvalue/vector decomposition or the Levenberg-Marquardt method.

**Tennessee**



* SABATH student continuing over summer
* New surrogate MiniWeatherML is not PyTorch Tensorflow from Oak Ridge
* “Hello World” for weather. [https://github.com/mrnorman/miniWeatherML](https://github.com/mrnorman/miniWeatherML) 

**Argonne**



* Xiaodong summarized the situation, and Baixi gave a detailed presentation  
* Working on reducing data size, but compression technology seems difficult
* The error-bounded approach doesn’t seem to work very well, and so Argonne are investigating other methods. There is currently no method that preserves good accuracy and gives significant reduction.
* Looking at the performance of first and second-order gradients
* What can you drop in second order method -- lots of data are irrelevant but not what current lossy compression seems to be doing
* Model parallelism for calculating eigensystems and then Data parallelism